# RKE2 Startup Helper Script

RKE2 provides excellent out of the box tools to install a new RKE2 cluster. However, it requires additional knowledge and configuration to build a STIG'd HA cluster. The images built with packer in this repo bake a helper script into `/root/rke2-startup.sh` to simplify this process. While this script is certainly not required for startup it can simplify your IaC setup if included during cloud-init. The script must be run as root due to RKE2's requirements for setup.

## Script Parameters

This script provides a number of parameters depending on your desired configuration:
- '-t' RKE2 uses a token to join nodes to the cluster. This token can be generated by RKE2 on the first node install, however, this script assumes the token is generated and provided by the caller using the '-t' parameter.
- '-s' RKE2 initializes on a single node. The '-s' argument is the IP address or hostname of the bootstrap node or cluster control plane and is used by a new node to join the cluster. When this is either unset or matches the IP of the host RKE2 is being started on, RKE2 will initialize as the bootstrap node. RKE2 running on this node provides information during \"cluster up\" and node join operations. It does not have any impact on the cluster operation after initialization. i.e. RKE2 master nodes work together in an HA configuration.
- '-a' RKE2 has server or agent nodes. Agent nodes are Kubernetes worker nodes and do not host critical services like etcd or control-plane deployments.
- '-u' The kube config file gets saved under this user's home directory. When this is not set, the user running the script is used (root).
- '-T' By default cluster generated certificate is only valid for the loopback address and private IPs it can find on interfaces. When accessing cluster from a hostname or public IP, they need to be provided so they can be added to the cluster certificate.

## Recommended Usage

This script should be run on each node with a minimum of 3 server nodes for an HA setup, plus additional agent nodes as needed. Ideally you should also setup loadbalancing for server nodes (at minimum round-robin with DNS) so that a single node failure does not cause access issues.

An example setup is provided below:
- Node1: `/root/rke2-startup.sh -t <token> -s <node1_ip> -T <rke2_lb_address>`
- Node2: `/root/rke2-startup.sh -t <token> -s <rke2_lb_address> -T <rke2_dns_address>`
- Node3: `/root/rke2-startup.sh -t <token> -s <rke2_lb_address> -T <rke2_dns_address>`
- NodeN (agent nodes): `/root/rke2-startup.sh -t <token> -s <rke2_lb_address> -a`

To generate a token you can use something like `openssl rand -hex 32` to generate a secure random string.

## Additional RKE2 Links

- RKE2 Releases: https://github.com/rancher/rke2/releases
- Air-Gap Install: https://docs.rke2.io/install/airgap#tarball-method
- RKE2 Installation options: https://docs.rke2.io/install/methods
- RKE2 Configuration file: https://docs.rke2.io/install/configuration
- RKE2 High-availability: https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/kubernetes-cluster-setup/rke2-for-rancher
